\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-

@c %**start of header
@setfilename ponypipe.info
@settitle ponypipe
@afourpaper
@documentencoding UTF-8
@documentlanguage en
@finalout
@c %**end of header


@c @defindex op
@c @synindex op vr
@c @synindex cp pg


@copying
This manual is for ponypipe.

Copyright @copyright{} 2013 Mattias Andrée

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
Texts. A copy of the license is included in the section entitled
``GNU Free Documentation License''.
@end quotation
@end copying


@ifnottex
@node Top
@top ponypipe
@insertcopying
@end ifnottex

@titlepage
@title ponypipe
@subtitle Ponify and deponify text
@author Mattias Andrée, m@@maandree.se
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@page
@*@*
@center `It's so simple. So practical. So… me! […] I love it!
@end titlepage

@contents


@menu
* Overview::                        Overview of @command{ponypipe}
* Invoking::                        Invoking @command{ponypipe}
* Translation rule files::          Translation rule files
* GNU Free Documentation License::  The license of this manual
* Concept index::                   Concept index
@end menu



@node Overview
@chapter Overview
@cindex overview
@cindex description

@command{ponypipe} is a utility for ponifing or deponifing text,
that is, translating English texts to Equestrian Engish, the dialect
used in Equestria in My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic. This
translation is basiclly replacing words and parts of words by something
horse related, for example replacing `everyone' with `everypony'.

@command{ponypipe} has adaptive casing, clopen word matching and on the fly
editing. @command{ponypipe} reads from stdin and prints to stdout and can
thus be used for virtually anything, and it even supports personal
translation rules and using rules in reverse.


@node Invoking
@chapter Invoking
@cindex invoking
@cindex arguments
@cindex options
@cindex executing
@cindex running

The format of a ponypipe command is:
@command{ponypipe [--ponify | --deponify] [--rules RULES]}.

@command{ponypipe} supports the options:

@table @option
@item --ponify
@itemx -z
This option is used by default as long as @option{--deponify} is not used.
This option is used to ponify text.
@item --deponify
@itemx -d
This option is used to deponify text, or use rules provided by @option{--rules}
in reverse, that is, translate from the right side to the left side, instead
of from the left side to the right side.
@item --rules
@itemx -r RULES
Specify a file with translation rules.
@end table


@node Translation rule files
@chapter Translation rule files
@cindex rules
@cindex personalise
@cindex settings
@cindex configurations

Asterisks may only be used at the end of a string, and allows to word to continue.
A line may start with hash to make the line a comment.
Lower case allows any case, the last characters case select the case on any character afterward.
Spaces (excluding no breaking spaces) is wildcard for any non-alphanumberical character.

The file consists of word translation on separate lines with the human version on the left
side and the pony version on the right side, separated by a two colons (@code{::}).

Example:
@cartouche
@example
everybody    ::  everypony
everyone     ::  everypony
everybody's  ::  everypony's
everyone's   ::  everypony's
@end example
@end cartouche


@node GNU Free Documentation License
@appendix GNU Free Documentation License
@include fdl.texinfo

@node Concept index
@appendix Concept index
@printindex cp

@c @node Concept and program index
@c @appendix Concept and program index
@c @printindex pg

@c @node Variable and option index
@c @appendix Variable and option index
@c @printindex vr


@bye

